The Disaggregated COT report increases transparency from the legacy COT reports by separating
traders into the following four categories of traders: Producer/Merchant/Processor/User; Swap
Dealers; Managed Money; and Other Reportables. The legacy COT report separates reportable
traders only into “commercial” and “non-commercial” categories.
All of the COT reports provide a breakdown of each Tuesday's open interest for markets in
which 20 or more traders hold positions equal to or above the reporting levels established by the
CFTC. 

The Disaggregated Commitments of Traders Report
The Commission, by regulation, collects confidential daily large-trader data as part of its market
surveillance program. The data, which also support the legacy COT report, is separated into the
following categories: 4
1) “Producer/Merchant/Processor/User,”
2) “Swap Dealers,”
3) “Managed Money,” and
4) “Other Reportables.”

Trader Classification
Staff use Form 40 data 5
and, where appropriate, conversations with a trader and other data
available to the Commission regarding a trader’s market activities to make a judgment on each
trader’s appropriate classification.
Some multi-service or multi-functional organizations have centralized their futures trading. In such
cases, their Form 40 may show more than one of the new categories. Division of Market Oversight
staff place each reportable trader in the most appropriate category based on their predominant
activity. In most cases, the choice of category is clear, but in some cases judgment must be
exercised by Commission staff as to what is a trader’s predominant activity. 6
Some parent organizations set up separately reportable trading entities to handle their different
businesses or locations. In such cases, each of these entities files a separate Form 40 and is
analyzed separately for determining that entity’s proper Disaggregated COT classification.
A trader’s classifications may change over a period of time for a number of reasons. A trader may
change the different ways it uses the markets, may trade additional or fewer commodities, and may
find that its client base evolves. These changes may lead to changes in classifications and
categories and/or changes in the commodities to which a trader’s various classifications apply.
Moreover, a trader’s classification may change because the Commission has received additional
information about the trader.

Content of the Disaggregated Commitments of Traders Report
Producer/Merchant/Processor/User
A “producer/merchant/processor/user” is an entity that predominantly engages in the production,
processing, packing or handling of a physical commodity and uses the futures markets to manage or
hedge risks associated with those activities.
Swap Dealer A “swap dealer” is an entity that deals primarily in swaps for a commodity and uses the
futures markets to manage or hedge the risk associated with those swaps transactions. The swap
dealer’s counterparties may be speculative traders, like hedge funds, or traditional commercial clients
that are managing risk arising from their dealings in the physical commodity.
Money Manager A “money manager,” for the purpose of this report, is a registered commodity
trading advisor (CTA); a registered commodity pool operator (CPO); or an unregistered fund
identified by CFTC. 7
These traders are engaged in managing and conducting organized futures
trading on behalf of clients.
Other Reportables
Every other reportable trader that is not placed into one of the other three categories is placed into
the “other reportables” category.
Spreading
The Disaggregated COT sets out open interest by long, short, and spreading for the three categories of
traders—“swap dealers,” “managed money,” and “other reportable.” For the
“producer/merchant/processor/user” category, open interest is reported only by long or short
positions. “Spreading” is a computed amount equal to offsetting long and short positions held by a
trader. The computed amount of spreading is calculated as the amount of offsetting futures in
different calendar months or offsetting futures and options in the same or different calendar months.
Any residual long or short position is reported in the long or short column. Inter-market spreads are
not considered.
Numbers of Traders
The sum of the numbers of traders in each separate category typically exceeds the total number of
reportable traders. This results from the fact that, in the “swap dealers,” “managed money,” and
“other reportables” categories, “spreading” can be a partial activity, so the same trader can fall into
either the outright “long” or “short” trader count, as well as into the “spreading” count.
Additionally, a reportable “producer/merchant/processor/user” may be in both the long and the short
position columns. In order to preserve the confidentiality of traders, for any given commodity
where a specific category has fewer than four active traders, the size of the relevant positions will be
provided but the trader count will be suppressed (specifically, a “·” will appear for trader counts of
fewer than four traders)

Potential Limitations of the Data
Commission staff reviews the reasonableness of a trader’s classification for many of the largest
traders in the markets based upon Form 40 disclosures and other information available to the
Commission. As described above, the actual placement of a trader in a particular classification
based upon their predominant business activity may involve some exercise of judgment on the part
of Commission staff. Some traders being classified in the “swap dealers” category engage in some
commercial activities in the physical commodity or have counterparties that do so. Likewise,
some traders classified in the “producer/merchant/processor/user” category engage in some swaps
activity. Moreover, it has always been true that the staff classifies traders not their trading activity.
Staff will generally know, for example, that a trader is a “producer/merchant/processor/user” but we
cannot know with certainty that all of that trader’s activity is hedging. Staff is working on
improvements to the Form 40 and other methodologies in order to improve the accuracy of the
trader classifications. When large reporting or classification issues are found, an announcement is
made and corrections are published as quickly as possible.

